project04-design.md, before:

**Vikram Gupta** **4/30/2021**

# **Project 4 Visual Design**

This document describes the visual design of the website showing the top big tech companies of the world.

## **Layouts**

**Landing Page**
We will use a z-pattern layout for the landing page with links to each of the pages for the companies in the order described in the project architecture document.  The main focus area should be a carousel of images linking to each of the tech company pages.
THe wireframe layout can be found here:
[project04/Landing Page Layout.PNG at main · vgupta117/project04 (github.com)](https://github.com/vgupta117/project04/blob/main/Images/Landing%20Page%20Layout.PNG)

**Tech Company Pages**
Tech company pages will use a Card layout which will render the information chosen by the Information Architect as described in the project architecture document in pairs.
Layouts are in github:
[project04/CompanyPageLayout.PNG at main · vgupta117/project04 (github.com)](https://github.com/vgupta117/project04/blob/main/Images/CompanyPageLayout.PNG)
[project04/CompanyPageLayout_Continued.PNG at main · vgupta117/project04 (github.com)](https://github.com/vgupta117/project04/blob/main/Images/CompanyPageLayout_Continued.PNG)



## **Color Pallet**
Since we're using the card layout, a light themed palette will be appropriate to add white space around the card content.  
Background color: white
Border: light gold slim line
Headers and text: Black or Greyscale
Hover text: blue
Example can be found at [Our Project 3 Website](https://mwsundberg.digitalscholar.rochester.edu/project03/oberursel/)

## **Typography**
Font Family : Lato paired Roboto
Lato is a sans serif typeface family with classical proportions that give harmony and elegance.  The semi-rounded details of the letters gives Lato a feeling of warmth, while the strong structure provides stability and seriousness.  This fits the mood and purpose of a tech company website.

Roboto has a dual nature. It has a mechanical skeleton and the forms are largely geometric. At the same time, the font features friendly and open curves. While some grotesks distort their letterforms to force a rigid rhythm, Roboto doesn’t compromise, allowing letters to be settled into their natural width. This makes for a more natural reading rhythm more commonly found in humanist and serif types.

[Lato Pairings](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato#pairings)

[project04/LatoFont.PNG at main · vgupta117/project04 (github.com)](https://github.com/vgupta117/project04/blob/main/Images/LatoFont.PNG)




> Written with [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/).
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTY2Nzc1NzA3NV19
-->

Commit message:

Borders for subsection cards
Added borders for subsection cards, documented the design variations from the original visual design document.

project04-design.md, after:

**Vikram Gupta** **4/30/2021**

# **Project 4 Visual Design**

**Team Lagos - Brian Kimani(IA), Vikram Gupta(Visual Designer)**

This document describes the visual design of the website showing the top big tech companies of the world.

## **Layouts**

**Landing Page**
We will use a z-pattern layout for the landing page with links to each of the pages for the companies in the order described in the project architecture document.  The main focus area should be a carousel of images linking to each of the tech company pages.
THe wireframe layout can be found here:
[project04/Landing Page Layout.PNG at main · vgupta117/project04 (github.com)](https://github.com/vgupta117/project04/blob/main/Images/Landing%20Page%20Layout.PNG)

**Tech Company Pages**
Tech company pages will use a Card layout which will render the information chosen by the Information Architect as described in the project architecture document in pairs.
Layouts are in github:
[project04/CompanyPageLayout.PNG at main · vgupta117/project04 (github.com)](https://github.com/vgupta117/project04/blob/main/Images/CompanyPageLayout.PNG)
[project04/CompanyPageLayout_Continued.PNG at main · vgupta117/project04 (github.com)](https://github.com/vgupta117/project04/blob/main/Images/CompanyPageLayout_Continued.PNG)



## **Color Pallet**
Since we're using the card layout, a light themed palette will be appropriate to add white space around the card content.  
Background color: white
Border: light gold slim line
Headers and text: Black or Greyscale
Hover text: blue
Example can be found at [Our Project 3 Website](https://mwsundberg.digitalscholar.rochester.edu/project03/oberursel/)

## **Typography**
Font Family : Lato paired Roboto
Lato is a sans serif typeface family with classical proportions that give harmony and elegance.  The semi-rounded details of the letters gives Lato a feeling of warmth, while the strong structure provides stability and seriousness.  This fits the mood and purpose of a tech company website.

Roboto has a dual nature. It has a mechanical skeleton and the forms are largely geometric. At the same time, the font features friendly and open curves. While some grotesks distort their letterforms to force a rigid rhythm, Roboto doesn’t compromise, allowing letters to be settled into their natural width. This makes for a more natural reading rhythm more commonly found in humanist and serif types.

[Lato Pairings](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato#pairings)

[project04/LatoFont.PNG at main · vgupta117/project04 (github.com)](https://github.com/vgupta117/project04/blob/main/Images/LatoFont.PNG)

May-6-2021
## **Variations from original design:**
1. The tech company layout sketches showed a paired card layout.  While we kept the card layout, we decided to make the subsections have varying sized cards to provide a better visual flow and showcase the content better.

2. Original design had chosen a golden border which didnt fit in with the rest of the theme. We switched to the darker secondary color for the border which was more in harmony with the rest of the page.


> Written with [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/).
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTY2Nzc1NzA3NV19
-->
